Submission #2: P4Debug: A Framework for Debugging Programmable Data Planes
==========================================================================

Authors
-------

1. Pietro Bressana <pietro.bressana@usi.ch> (Universita' della Svizzera
   italiana)
2. Robert Soul√© <robert.soule@usi.ch> (Universita' della Svizzera italiana,
   Barefoot Networks)
3. Noa Zilberman <noa.zilberman@cl.cam.ac.uk> (University of Cambridge)

Abstract
--------

Computer networks are a pervasive infrastructure, which is essential for a
number of applications that touch all walks of life. However, although networks
are complex, unpredictable and fault-prone, engineers lack the tools and support
necessary for debugging network hardware. This appears to be changing. A new
breed of switches that can be programmed with high-level languages such as P4
match the speed of fixed function devices. This trend raises an important
question: Can we leverage this new programmability for debugging network
hardware?

Previous approaches for debugging programmable network hardware suffer from two
main limitations: they only allow passive debugging in response to externally
generated packets and they are deployed in the same data plane that a user is
trying to debug. Moreover, they do not isolate the programmable pipeline from
the other layers of hardware, (e.g., SerDes, PCS, MAC, etc.).

To address these challenges, we propose a new debugging infrastructure for
network devices that leverages recent advances in network programmability and
hardware design, by providing unprecedented visibility into the internal state
and operations of network devices. Our debugging framework, named P4Debug,
includes three major components: (i) an extension to the target architecture to
allow for packet generation for active debugging, (ii) a debug module that is
parallel to the packet-processing pipeline, and (iii) debug-specific language
extensions to P4.

P4Debug will be evaluated through a prototype, implemented using several
existing technologies, including the NetFPGA SUME framework and Xilinx SDNet
P4-to-FPGA compiler. We expect that, thanks to our innovative debug
infrastructure, network operators would improve their ability to understand and
debug their networks. P4Debug is a work-in-progress. We look forward to sharing
our initial results, and to getting feedback from the community regarding use
cases for the tool.
