Submission #25: Another heavy hitter detection problem
======================================================

Authors
-------
1. Salvator Galea <salvator.galea@cl.cam.ac.uk> (University of Cambridge)
2. Gianni Antichi (University of Cambridge)

Abstract
--------

Monitoring network traffic based on flows can be beneficial for many network
management applications. By identifying the amount of traffic, these flows
contribute to the link, we can define them as heavy hitters. Consequently, by
monitoring them we can apply traffic engineering to relief the network from
congestion or detect network attacks (DoS).

The two common technics that they have been applied to this problem, is packet
sampling and counter-based/sketching algorithms. This preliminary work aims to
diagnose if the size of time window, used in the counter-based/sketching
algorithms, has an impact on the results of identifying the heavy hitters. A
technique, which is configured to monitor time windows for detecting heavy
hitters, may report different results based on the window’s size. This arise
from the fact that counter-based/sketching algorithms have limited number of
memory resources to use and store all the flows identifiers. In addition to
that, they have to periodically flush this information from the counters in
order to continue detecting new flows and heavy hitters.

A new approach would be to apply the existing time decaying models for
streaming. In this case, there will be a sliding time window, instead of
predefined fixed size window, which will be able to keep historical data for the
heavy hitters without the need of flushing them periodically. The main idea is
not to maintain counters (number of packets) for every top-k flow (heavy hitter)
but to focus on the relevant frequency of each packet of them. This introduces
the feature to increment or decay the importance of a specific flow based on its
frequency instead of its number of packet for a specific time window.

The current state of this work is to analyze network traces from three of the
data centers studied in the IMC 2010 paper titled “Network Traffic
Characteristics of Data Centers in the Wild “. This analysis will prove that
selecting a size for the time window is crucial for the results of identifying
heavy hitters. Therefore, it would be very useful to have some feedback for this
early idea.
