Submission #18: And what would you do with ten thousand Raspberry Pis?
======================================================================

Authors
-------
1. Jeremy Singer <jeremy.singer@glasgow.ac.uk> (University of Glasgow)
2. Anna Lito Michala <annalito.michala@glasgow.ac.uk> (University of Glasgow)
3. Herry Herry <herry.herry@glasgow.ac.uk> (University of Glasgow)

Abstract
--------
The introduction of ubiquitous low-cost, low-power compute devices,
e.g.  in the Internet of Things (IoT,) is fundamentally changing the
computational landscape. Although we already see some benefits
provided by special purpose IoT devices, the true capability is only
realised when we can integrate large numbers of distributed devices as
part of a much larger federated service. Our research is currently
focusing on lightweight management infrastructures for IoT devices
that are not necessary co-located. Developments in the Smart City and
Smart Campus domains pose interesting research challenges in the way
we maintain, manage, and use the expected cyber-physical systems that
emerge.

In the Anyscale Applications project [1] we have examined ways of
incorporating reusable infrastructure to enable research in the smart
campus environment.  In the FRŒºIT project [2] the focus is shifted
towards a management framework that allows users to maintain and
manage devices that do not reside within the same physical network. In
both projects we utilise single board computers (Raspberry Pi) to
extend the capabilities of conventional IoT devices and increase edge
computing potential. We envisage a testbed comprising tens of
thousands of nodes, geographically distributed and capable of
challenging remote off-grid scenarios.

We aim to popularise the concept of a micro-datacenter, a minimal
footprint, low-power and low-cost compute cluster that can be pushed
to the edge of distributed networks, fundamentally changing the
current model of the centralised datacenter. We have already built
prototype micro-datacenters at multiple sites, for example a mini-HPC
cluster (Southampton University), a scale model cloud datacenter
(Glasgow and Loughborough University), and a decentralized sensing and
communication platform for ultra-remote internet blackspots (Cambridge
University). This project is about connecting together our isolated
micro-datacenters to produce a federated, geo-distributed testbed.

Further, to continue from our Anyscale Applications project work we
are building a scalable smart campus testbed [3], using reconfigurable
supersensor nodes. Currently available commercial IoT alternatives
(e.g. Nokia/Siemens) have ongoing issues with security, scalability of
remote management, application retargetability, and data
availability. We propose disposable compute nodes, small-scale
embedded programmable devices with significant compute power
(e.g. Raspberry Pi), along with commodity sensors
(light/temperature/CO2/sound/motion) and wireless comms (e.g LoRA,
5G).  Our framework will become the enabling technology for different
applications as system and user requirements evolve. For example, it
can facilitate student interaction with the physical campus via
smartphones, indoor location and navigation, room occupancy
monitoring, campus heat maps for data measures, emergency management,
on the spot satisfaction surveys, and ubicomp research.

In summary, our research aims to address some of the emerging
challenges in fragmented aggregations of micro-clusters, alongside the
development of exemplar use cases for such systems.

[1] anyscale.org
[2] fruit-testbed.org
[3] https://doi.org/10.1109/FiCloud.2016.16


